MUTE



CHAPTER ONE



There were three confession booths. The middle one was vacant. No one was waiting. The church was empty. Light came in through the windows and made squares on the floor. Monette thought about leaving, but didn't. Instead, he walked to the vacant booth and went inside. When he closed the door and sat down, the little window on his right opened.

From the other side of the screen, the priest spoke. 'How are you doing, my son?'

Monette didn't think that was a standard greeting. But it was all right. Anyway, he couldn't say anything at first. Not a word. And that was strange.

'Son?'

Still nothing. The words were there, but they were all blocked.

The figure beyond the screen moved. 'It's been a while?'

'Yes,' Monette said. It was something. At last.

'Want me to give you some help?'

'No, I remember. Bless me, Father, for I have sinned.'

'Uh-huh, and how long has it been since your last confession?'

'I don't remember. A long time. But not since I was a kid.'

'Well, it's like riding a bike - once you learn how to do it, you can never forget it.'

But for a moment Monette could still say nothing. He looked around.

'Son? The day is passing, and I have company coming for lunch. Actually, my company is...'

'Father, I think I have committed a terrible sin.'

Now the priest was silent for a while. Mute, Monette thought.

When the priest on the other side of the screen spoke again, his voice was still friendly. 'What's your sin, my son?'

And Monette said, 'I don't know. You'll have to tell me.'





CHAPTER TWO



It was starting to rain when Monette turned onto the road leading towards the highway. His suitcase was in the trunk, and his sample cases were in the backseat. One was brown, one black. Both had the Wolfe and Sons logo: a wolf with a book in its mouth. Monette was a book salesman in the northern part of New England. It was Monday morning. It had been a bad weekend, very bad. His wife had moved out to a motel, where she was probably not alone. Soon she might go to jail. Certainly there would be a scandal, and infidelity was only a part of it.

The rain grew stronger. There was a man standing at the side of the road. He was wearing old clothes and holding up a sign. There was an old brown backpack between his feet in dirty sneakers. The hitchhiker had no umbrella.

At first Monette could only see the sign with red lips and a black line drawn across them. When he got a little closer, he saw the words above and below the lips that read I AM MUTE! WILL YOU GIVE ME A RIDE???

Monette was already driving past when the hitchhiker turned the sign over. On the other side was an ear with a line across it. Above the ear: I AM DEAF! Below it: PLEASE GIVE ME A RIDE!!!

Monette had driven millions of miles since he was sixteen, most of them selling one thing after another, and during that time he had never picked up a hitchhiker. Today he stopped at the side of the road. The St. Christopher's medal hanging from the rearview mirror was still swinging back and forth when he opened the car door locks. Today he felt he had nothing to lose.

The hitchhiker got in and put his little backpack between his wet and dirty sneakers. Monette had thought, looking at him, that the fellow would smell bad, and he was right. He said, 'How far are you going?'

The hitchhiker shrugged and pointed to the highway. His hair was thin with some gray in it.

'I know which way,' Monette said and realized the man couldn't hear him. The hitchhiker fastened his seat belt and looked at Monette, as if to ask what he was waiting for. The man was skinny and not so tall. There were lines on his unshaven face. Monette couldn't tell his age. Somewhere between old and not old.

'How far are you going?' Monette asked again, and, when the guy still looked at him, he said, 'Can you read lips?' He touched his own.

The hitchhiker shook his head and made some hand gestures.

Monette took out a pad and wrote How far? on it. Monette was going all the way to Derry, a hundred and sixty miles, and these were the kind of driving conditions he usually hated. But today it would be all right. Today the weather would keep him busy.

The weather and his new passenger, who looked at the note, then back at Monette. Maybe the guy can't read, Monette thought. The man pointed through the windshield and opened and closed his hands eight times. Or maybe ten. Eighty miles? Or a hundred? Maybe that was what he wanted to say.

'Waterville?' Monette guessed.

The hitchhiker just looked at him.

'Okay,' Monette said. 'Whatever. Just tap me on the shoulder when we get where you're going.'

The hitchhiker just looked at him.

'Well, I guess you will,' Monette said. He checked his rearview mirror, then started driving again.

The guy was still looking at him. He shrugged and put his hands over his ears.

'I know,' Monette said. 'But today I almost wish I was you and you were me.' He paused. 'Almost. How about some music?'

And when the hitchhiker just turned his head away and looked out the window, Monette had to laugh at himself. Music, or noise, or talking - it was all the same to this guy.

He had bought a new CD for his daughter - it was her birthday in a week - but hadn't the time to send it to her yet. Too many other things were going on lately. He put the CD in the player. Now it was a used CD, not the kind of thing you give your beloved only child. Well, he could always buy her another one. If he still had money.

As he listened to the music, he thought about money. Buying a new CD for Kelsie's birthday was the least of his problems. If Barb had done what she said she had done, he didn't know how he was going to pay for the kid's last year at school. Even if he still had a job himself. That was a problem.

The hitchhiker's face and body were turned away to the passenger window. Monette could see only the back of his faded coat. At first Monette couldn't decide if the hitchhiker was sleeping or looking at the scenery. Then he saw how the man's breath was fogging the glass of the passenger window, and decided that he was sleeping. And why not? What could be more boring than a highway in a cold spring rain?

After a long while the music had stopped, but Monette didn't change the CD; instead, he began to talk.





CHAPTER THREE



Monette stopped talking and checked his watch. It was already quarter to noon, and the priest had said he had company coming for lunch.

'Father, I'm sorry this is taking so long.'

'That's all right, son. I'm interested now. Did this man rob you?'

'No,' Monette said.

'Then what did he do?'

'Nothing. Just looked out the window. I thought he was sleeping, but later I had reasons to think I was wrong about that.'

'What did you do, then?'

'Talked about my wife,' Monette said. 'He was a deaf-mute, I thought. I could say anything and wouldn't have to listen to his analysis, opinion, or advice. He was deaf, he was mute. I also thought he was probably asleep, so I could say anything I wanted to!'

'What exactly did you say about her?' the priest asked.

'I told him she was fifty-four,' Monette said. 'That was how I started.'





CHAPTER FOUR



The St. Christopher's medal was swinging from the rearview mirror - a gift from Barb in better days - and Monette thought that his car was like a confession booth on wheels. So he started slowly, as so many confessors do.

'I'm married,' he said. 'I'm fifty-five, and my wife is fifty-four. Fifty-four, Barbara's fifty-four! We've been married for twenty-six years. One kid. A lovely daughter. Kelsie Ann. She goes to school in Cleveland, and I don't know how I'm going to keep her there, because two weeks ago it turned out my wife's got a boyfriend. Has had a boyfriend for almost two years. They went to dancing classes together. He's a teacher, but she calls him Cowboy Bob.'

Monette glanced to his right, but the hitchhiker was still turned away, with his forehead against the glass of the passenger window. Sleeping for sure.

Almost for sure.

Monette hadn't told anyone about her infidelity. Kelsie still didn't know, although she would find out soon. Three different reporters had already called them before he left on this trip, but there was nothing they could print yet. That would change soon, and Monette would say No comment for as long as possible. But now, in the car, he was talking, and it brought him relief

'She's fifty-four,' he said again. That's what shocked me. It means she started with this guy, whose real name is Robert Yandowsky, when she was fifty-two. Fifty-two! Isn't that old enough to know better? My God, she wears glasses and her gallbladder is out! And yet she takes this guy to the Grove Motel! I gave her a nice house in Buxton, a nice car, and she threw it all away because of this guy! This Cowboy Bob is sixty!'

He heard himself, and told himself to stop. Then he saw the hitchhiker hadn't moved, and realized he didn't have to stop. He was in his car. He was on a highway. His passenger was a deaf-mute. He could say whatever he wanted.

He continued.

Barb had told him everything, and she wasn't ashamed. She seemed calm. Shocked, maybe. Or still living in a fantasy world. And she'd said it was partly his fault.

'I'm on the road a lot, that's true. More than three hundred days last year. She was on her own. So it was my fault. Cowboy Bob and all the rest of it.'

Monette was very glad he'd picked the hitchhiker up. He could have said these things aloud in the empty car, but...





CHAPTER FIVE



'But it wouldn't have been the same,' he told the man on the other side of the screen. 'Do you understand that, Father?'

'Of course I do,' the priest replied rather cheerfully. 'Confession is good for the soul. We've known that for two thousand years.'

Not so religious in the past, lately Monette had started wearing the St. Christopher's medal that once had swung from his rearview mirror. Perhaps it was just superstition.

'Son, what else did she do, your wife?'

Monette surprised himself by laughing. And on the other side of the screen, the priest laughed, too. He probably saw the funny side.

'Well, there was the underwear,' Monette said.





CHAPTER SIX



'She bought underwear,' he told the hitchhiker, who still sat turned away, with his forehead against the window and his breath fogging the glass. 'She showed me. Bras and silk stockings, dozens of them. Most of them expensive. Must've cost thousands of dollars. But mostly there were panties. She said Cowboy Bob liked them.'

Monette was driving with the headlights on, but in this weather they were no help.

'But a lot of it hadn't even been worn. I asked her why she'd bought so many, and she either didn't know or couldn't explain. Like she was thinking, This is all a dream 'I'll wake up from soon. God knows what else she had bought! Then I asked her where she got the money, and we got to the real problem. Which was embezzlement.'





CHAPTER SEVEN



'Embezzlement?' the priest asked.

'She worked for MSAD 19,' Monette said, 'which is Maine School Administrative District, and both the dancing school and the historic Grove Motel are just down the road from there. Convenient, huh? she told me. She told me everything.'

'Was she a teacher?'

'Oh no. Teachers don't have access to that kind of money. She could have never embezzled over a hundred and twenty thousand dollars if she'd been a teacher. The district superintendent Victor McCrea had sometimes come to our house for dinner with his wife. Barb was his executive secretary for twelve years.' Monette paused. 'She had the checkbook.'





CHAPTER EIGHT



The rain was getting heavier. Monette slowed down without even thinking about it, while other cars went past him in the left lane in clouds of water. He had had a long and accident-free career, and he wanted to keep it that way.

On his right, the hitchhiker moved a little.

'Are you awake, buddy?' Monette asked. A useless question. 'So, where was I?'

The underwear, that's where he was. He could still see it in the closet. Then the confession of the embezzlement: that shocking figure. He had asked her how much was left, and she said in that same calm voice that there was nothing left, really, but she could get more.

'They're going to find out soon now,' she said. 'If it was just poor old Vic, I think I could go on forever, but the state auditors came in last week. They asked too many questions, and they took copies of the records. It won't be long now.'

'So I asked her how she could spend so much,' Monette told his silent companion. 'I didn't feel angry. At least not then. I guess I was too shocked. But I was really curious. And she said they got interested in the lottery because they thought they could pay it back that way.'

Monette paused. He watched the windshield wipers go back and forth, and thought about turning the wheel and sending the car off the road. Committing suicide would solve his problems. But he was not alone in the car. So he continued his story.

'They must've bought more lottery tickets than anyone in history. They tried all kinds of lotteries, Barb told me.' Monette shook his head. 'She said the first time Bob played, they won five hundred dollars. It was so romantic. She said once they won a thousand, but by then they had already spent thirty thousand. After that, the romance stayed, but the winning stopped.'

'One time in January, while I was out on the road trying to earn money, she said they went to Derry and spent a couple of days there at a place called Hollywood Slots. They stayed in a suite and lost seventy-five hundred playing video poker. But, she said, they didn't like that so much. Mostly they were trying to get some money back.'

'Are you all right, buddy?' There was no answer from his passenger, so Monette shook the man's shoulder. The hitchhiker lifted his head from the window and looked around, blinking as if he had been asleep. Monette didn't think he'd been asleep. No reason why, just a feeling.

Monette pointed to a green sign with Waterville written on it, then raised his eyebrows.

For a moment the hitchhiker only looked at him. Then he smiled and shook his head.

'Okay,' Monette said. 'Just checking.' Behind them the sign had drifted into the rain.

'Had it been just underwear and the lottery tickets,' he said, 'it could've been okay because I might've been able to cover something like thirty thousand and even forgive her infidelity. I could have taken out a second mortgage on the house. Not for Barb, no, but for Kelsie Ann. The kid's just starting out in life and doesn't need family dramas like that. You know?'

The hitchhiker obviously didn't know about anything. He was warm and dry, and that was probably enough for him.





CHAPTER NINE



'So they continued scratching tickets, didn't they?' the priest asked.

'You speak like a man who's done it himself,' Monette said.

'Sometimes,' the priest agreed. 'I always tell myself that if I ever get big money, I'll give it all to the church. But I never risk more than five dollars a week. Sometimes ten. And once I bought a twenty-dollar ticket. But that was madness. I never did it again.'

'At least not yet,' Monette said.

The priest laughed. 'I'm fascinated by your story, but could we move a bit faster? My company will wait while I do the Lord's work, but not forever.'

'There's not much more,' Monette said. 'Barb confessed she had never bought any lottery tickets alone, but when she was with Cowboy Bob they'd bought a lot. Hoping for that big money, you know. Once she said they bought a hundred of those tickets in one night. That's two thousand dollars. They got eighty back.'

'Son, did you hit her? Is that why you're here?'

'No,' Monette said. 'I wanted to kill her for it - the money, not the cheating, because it seemed unreal, even with all that underwear right in front of my eyes. But I didn't even touch her. I think it was because I was too tired. All that information had just exhausted me. All I wanted to do was to sleep. For a long time. Maybe for a couple of days. Isn't that strange?'

'No,' the priest said.

'I asked her how she could do something like that to me. Didn't she care? And she asked me...'





CHAPTER TEN



'She asked me why I didn't know,' Monette told the hitchhiker. 'And before I could say anything, she answered that I didn't care. She said I was almost always on the road, and when I wasn't on the road, I wanted to be on the road. It's been years since I cared what underwear she had on. But she made me care now. I just looked at her. I was too tired to kill her, but I was mad. Shocked and mad. She was trying to make it all my fault. You see that, don't you?'

Monette paused. Far in the distance he saw a blue sign. Then he said, 'But even that wasn't the point. Her point was that I was supposed to feel guilty for liking my job!'

The hitchhiker moved a little but said nothing. Monette realized that he had been shouting.

'So I asked her what happened now, and she said she might go to jail,' Monette continued in a lower voice. 'And you know what? If she'd started to cry then, I might have even held her. But she didn't cry, so I walked out. Just turned around and walked out. And when I came back, there was a note saying she'd moved out. That was almost two weeks ago, and I haven't seen her since. Talked to her on the phone a few times, that's all. Talked to a lawyer, too. I suppose I'll see her again in court. Her and Cowboy Bob.'

Now Monette could read the blue sign: REST AREA 2 MILES.

'Waterville's fifteen miles back now, partner,' Monette said, and when the deaf-mute didn't answer (of course not), Monette realized he didn't know where the guy had been actually going to. They would stop at the rest area and find it out, but he still had a minute or two for one more thing to say.

'It's true that I haven't felt much for her in a very long time,' he said. 'And it's also true that I haven't been always faithful. But does that justify her ruining our life?'

Monette stopped at the rest area. There were maybe four cars parked next to the brown building with the vending machines in the front. The hitchhiker looked at him questioningly.

'Where are you going?' Monette asked, hopelessly.

The deaf-mute looked around and saw where they were. He looked back at Monette as if to say, Not here.

Monette pointed back and raised his eyebrows. The deaf- mute shook his head, then pointed forward. Opened and closed his hands eight times, same as before. But this time Monette got it: eight means infinity.

'You're just traveling around, aren't you?' Monette asked.

The deaf-mute only looked at him.

'Yeah, you are,' Monette said. 'Well, I tell you what. I'll get you to Derry. But now I have to take a leak. You need to take a leak?'

The deaf-mute looked at him patiently.

Monette pointed towards the restroom sign. This his passenger understood. He shook his head. Now Monette had a problem: leave Mr. Silent in the car while he did his business or ask him to wait outside in the rain? Then he remembered that there was no money in the car, and his personal things were locked in the trunk. There were his heavy sample cases in the backseat, but he didn't think the guy was going to steal them.

'I'll be right back,' Monette said and pointed to himself, to the restroom, then back to himself. This time the hitchhiker nodded.

Monette went to the restroom and spent a long time there. He felt relief. He felt better than he had since Barb had confessed to him. For the first time he thought that he was going to get through this. And he would help Kelsie get through it too. He remembered an old saying (maybe a Russian one, it certainly sounded like the Russian view of life): Whatever does not kill me makes me stronger.

He went back to his car, whistling. At first he thought maybe he couldn't see his passenger because the guy was lying down. But the hitchhiker wasn't lying down. The hitchhiker was gone. Had taken his backpack and his sign with him.

Monette checked the backseat and saw his Wolfe and Sons cases untouched. He checked his documents - they were all still there.

He thought he'd probably see the guy back on the highway, holding his sign and patiently waiting for another Good Samaritan. If so, Monette would stop and pick him up again. The job didn't feel done, somehow.

But the guy wasn't anywhere around. And it wasn't until Monette almost reached Derry that he looked up at the rearview mirror and saw that his St. Christopher's medal was gone. Maybe the deaf-mute needed it more than he did, Monette thought. He hoped it would bring the guy good luck.

Two days later, when he was selling books in Presque Isle, he got a call from the Maine State Police. His wife and Bob Yandowsky had been beaten to death in the Grove Motel.





CHAPTER ELEVEN



'My dear God!' the priest gasped.

'Yes,' Monette agreed, 'that's what I thought.'

'And your daughter..?'

'Heartbroken, of course. She's with me, at home, and of course, she doesn't know about the other thing. The embezzlement. I hope she never will. There will be a very large insurance payment, and I think I would've been in serious trouble with the police now if I hadn't had a good alibi.'

'Son, you didn't pay someone to..?'

'I've been asked that already. The answer is no. But Father, can you come out? I want to show you something.'

Instead of replying, the priest opened his door. Monette took the St. Christopher's medal from around his neck. The medal and its steel chain passed from hand to hand.

There was silence for five seconds as the priest examined it. Then he said, 'When was this returned to you? Was it at the motel where..?'

'No,' Monette said. 'Not the motel. The house in Buxton. It was in the room that used to be our bedroom. Next to our wedding picture, actually.'

'Dear God,' the priest said.

'He could have gotten the address from my car registration when I was in the restroom.'

'And of course you mentioned the name of the motel and the town,' the priest said, thoughtfully. 'The fellow wasn't deaf-mute at all, was he?'

'I'm almost sure he was mute,' Monette said, 'but he wasn't deaf. He also left me a note. All this must've happened while my daughter and I were at the funeral home. The back door was unlocked. I think I just forgot and left it open when we went out.'

'What did the note say?' the priest asked.

'It said thank you for the ride,' Monette answered and took back his medal.

'Have you told the police?'

'Yes, of course, the whole story. They think they know who the guy is. They're familiar with his sign. His name is Stanley Doucette. He's spent years traveling around New England. Just like me, if you think of it.'

'Other crimes on his record?'

'A few,' Monette said. 'I don't think the police told me everything.'

'They haven't caught this fellow yet?'

'They say they will. They say he's not very smart. But he was smart enough to fool me.'

'Did he fool you, son? Or did you know you were speaking to a listening ear?'

Monette was quiet for a long time. 'I did not,' he finally said.

'But are you glad your wife and her lover are dead?'

'I'm relieved, sorry to say that, Father, but considering the mess she made and the insurance money - I am relieved. Is that a sin?'

'Yes, my son. Sorry, but it is. Ten Our Fathers and ten Hail Marys,' the priest said quickly. 'Now, son...'

'Yes?'

'Are you sure you didn't give this man permission? Or encourage him in any way?'

'No, Father. But do you think is it possible that God put that guy in my car?'

'That's blasphemy. Ten more Our Fathers. Are we done here?'

'We're done, Father.'

'Then go your way and sin no more. And take care of your daughter.'

'Yes, Father.'

'Can I ask you one more question?'

'Yes,' Monette said, reluctantly. He wanted to be gone.

'Do you want the police to catch this man?'

'Of course I do,' Monette said, too quickly. He really wanted to leave.

On his way back home, he added two extra Hail Marys and two extra Our Fathers.





- THE END -




